politics is an art form but unlike
painting you cannot do it alone
you need to be just one player in an
orchestra Pet of your contemporaries and
coming here on YouTube lets you find
other people and ask and answer the
question
hey you and me can we play in harmony
can we play the same tune about the
different angles I watched a video by
vegan foot soldier yesterday and title
was something like vegan YouTube is
dying
it was addressing something that aisel
Mozart about the CL talked about a few
months ago do you remember
aisel making that video the idols
argument was that the vegan movement is
dying the victim movement is losing
momentum because vegan youtubers are
losing views and stuff like that
and Google trends and things like that
no no no there's a massive distinction
between the movement the vegan movement
and vegan YouTube right so what goes on
a vegan YouTube it's certainly not a
reflection about what's going on most of
the time when people present you with a
logical fallacy they do not do it
intentionally and they do not do it in
an underhanded way I think that Michelle
is here being completely sincere but she
is in fact engaging in deceptive and
fallacious reasoning this is a moving
the goal posts fallacy she first tries
to establish that YouTube itself is not
a political movement but then you take a
subtle next step into absurdity in
saying that it is not a reflection of a
political movement
well vegan YouTube it's certainly not a
reflection about what's going on of
course it's a reflection of a political
movement people have
conferences for the movement and they
film those conferences and they upload
them to YouTube
it reflects what happened at the
conference people have demonstrations on
the street and they film them and upload
them to YouTube that reflects what's
going on in street activism so on and so
forth if you were talking about any
other example of a political social or
even a religious movement if you're
talking about any example that you
didn't have this biased attachment
toward you would readily accept that
YouTube and other social media metrics
like Google Trends data tells you
something about how popular how
successful that movement is it's a
reflection of what's going on in that
movement all right so a course in
miracles' ACIM this is the peculiar
religious cult associated with the
political leader marianne williamson so
this is a political movement in part it
is a religion in part and of course it's
in part a social media phenomenon now
let's say you just found out yesterday
that there is this wacky new religion in
the United States of America and you
want to know how popular is it what's
going on you can look at YouTube you can
look at Facebook you can look at metrics
like Google Trends and even if you don't
have anything else you can compare the
data to you get a sense of the growth or
decline in interest by looking at the
same statistic over time all other
things being equal
so this relatively obscure new religious
movement or cult got a lot of newspaper
headline coverage because Marianne
Williamson briefly was a candidate in
the elections for president of the
United States she attended and
participated in debates within the
Democrat Party the United States I made
two videos at least criticizing her
politically and I noticed that
nobody else was engaged in the critique
of her politics or her religious views
and that was a somewhat dangerous thing
now was her campaign successful in
increasing public interest in her
religion because she is a preacher she
is a leader in that religious movement
well look at the blue line on screen the
jagged blue line we can look at social
media data like this and no there's no
question here of this ridiculous
fallacious reasoning we're not using oh
no no social media tells us nothing
about what's going on in this political
movement social media tells us nothing
about how much interest there is in this
religion it tells us something it
provides us with a reflection we might
expect to see in this data a sudden
increase in public interest in this
religion around the time when it got a
lot of newspaper coverage because of
this political campaign all right we
don't see that we also do not see a
sudden and dramatic decline in interest
but we can say this was a marginal
political group and you can see on the
map there it's clustered in just one
part of the United States of America we
can say that over the past five years
they failed to achieve their goals
politically or in terms of promoting
their religion so on and so forth vegan
YouTube it's certainly not a reflection
about what's going on social media such
as YouTube provides a reflection however
so imperfect of what is going on in
different kinds of political movements
it even gives a remarkably good
reflection of what's going on in covert
political movements terrorists for the
government's illegal political movements
and governments all over the world use
social media to track groups like Isis
groups they're actually at war with
because those groups also film
themselves and upload when they have
meetings when they give lectures when
they have street protests all kinds of
radical and extreme groups who have
every reason to conceal their faces and
and locations they also are addicted to
uploading to social media and believe it
or not governments and intelligence
agencies can track how much interest
these different political groups have is
increases and decreases over time using
the same sort of methodology we're
talking about here
whether it's applied to veganism or
Buddhism or Marianne Williamson and her
peculiar religious group A Course in
Miracles okay so know when you're
looking at YouTube you're not looking at
the reality of veganism as a political
movement itself but you are looking at a
reflection of that political movement
and you know what there's a third really
important point here which is that
social media lets us measure how much
public interest there is in the
political movement from outside because
I think we all agree it's really easy to
live inside the bubble of a cult like
the Course in Miracles group here you
might live in one of the communities in
California where it seems like
everyone's supporting Marianne
Williamson and this is a big deal and
it's really popular and really
successful and everyone you know goes to
attend classes and prayer and meditation
with the Marianne Williamson religious
group you might think hey wow
everything's really going great for this
this movement were part of it's growing
and growing and then you get to consult
these sorts of metrics to put your
perception in check yes within the vegan
movement there's a lot of interest in
veganism but how much interest is there
in the general public there was a
controversy in Canada just a couple of
years ago about the way in which the
federal government was using social
media data to diagnose not just social
problems but public interest in and
public complaints about social problems
and this is hypothetically a very
powerful and useful tool in the
government's hands what we're about to
give is a hypothetical example but if
you live in Canada you'll know this is
not too terribly hypothetical let's just
say the newspapers and local radio are
full of complaints that the new ferry
scheduled the new boat scheduled causes
problems for people that it's ruining
communities that it's
society apart okay but the government is
evil to track the complaints through
social media they're able to look at oh
how many people are actually complaining
that the new ferry schedule was a
problem now compared to how many we're
complaining before they're able to
analyze the data and then present and
say you know what the reality is there
were just a few tourism companies that
are closely connected to the newspapers
and the radio stations and those tourism
companies are complaining a lot and
they're getting a lot of press coverage
but actually the new ferry schedule is
better for the majority of the
population and you know what the
government needs to do maybe we need to
find a solution with another boating
company or some other arrangement just
for this tourism company because it's
just not true the complaints are being
blown out of proportion this is the sort
of analysis the social media allows
governments to do and to some extent if
you have the time and interest it allows
you and I to engage in that analysis if
you have the motivation and discipline
to do so it's certainly not a reflection
about what's going on in relation to
being in the real world because me going
vegan in the real world made me look at
veganism on YouTube I'm fine to be good
YouTube right so there's an overlap but
the arguments are not the same so it
doesn't mean to say that because vegan
something and YouTube channels are
losing views the veganism is dying in
the same way that Michelle is not really
aware of how fallacious our own
reasoning is she here also slips into
misrepresenting me misrepresenting my
argument misrepresenting my position I
think the soldier does this too but you
know if I'm actually speaking to him I
can kind of snap him out of it
you know if entire log um what what side
of this debate was I on again was I one
of the people like freely who argued
that social media was going to replace
conventional political activism oh no
wait
right I was the bitterest enemy of
right I was her harshest critic right
you remember that how did you manage to
get that mixed up how did you manage to
misrepresent my position in the debate
about vegan activism to the extent of
pretending that I was one of the people
exaggerating the significance of
veganism on YouTube
I never was i eating back when people
like foot soldier were true believers in
and cult followers of harley and freely
when he was literally going to chiang
mai to ride his bicycle with those
people and do social media
collaborations with them i was the guy
who was sure on the internet not just
harshly criticizing their position on
social media activism but also
criticizing unnatural vegan let's not
forget my political manifesto video now
translated into 11 languages or
something is me disagreeing with a
natural vegan she says that she doesn't
want to build a community she doesn't
want to be part of a community she just
wants to make money coming on youtube
and doing this [ __ ] commentary video
thing and i say back loud and clear no
no no i'm here on youtube to meet people
to make friends to make colleagues but
you know what i'm about I'm getting off
YouTube and building a real community
real constituency real political
organization real lobbying that's who
I've been that's what I've been
advocating for from day one I've been
the harshest critic of the shallowness
and stupidity of the people who
pretended that YouTube wasn't merely a
substitute for real-world activism that
YouTube was merely a substitute for
political organization and lobbying a
lot of these people pretended and
actively preached that YouTube was so
effective that it had replaced
conventional political organization
entirely freelee and durianrider came
here on the internet and told you that
they were the most effective vegan
activists in the world they said come on
the internet tell your weight loss story
talk about how veganism improve your sex
life Alvie he doesn't cure your ass
veganism cured close disease and a whole
bunch of other crazy diseases that
veganism does not cure they said come a
leader and boast about that stuff and
that is going to be more effective than
all the hard work that petaa has done in
the last 20 years more effective than
all the hard work the abolitionists have
done or the anti whales in SeaWorld
people have done it's going to be more
effective than the abolish fur movement
all these decades it's going to be so
much more effective if we just get
enough hot chicks in bikinis talking
about how veganism change the world and
to give credit where it's due
they were also believers in people
putting up slaughterhouse footage
ethical and ecological footage they did
also see that as part of the magic of
what YouTube and social media were doing
and setting the world aflame now I
disagree
with their entire analysis I think they
were wrong in a step beyond that I was
the only person criticizing a natural
vegan when she came out and said she has
no interest in a vegan community she's
not here on YouTube in order to be part
of a community she doesn't want to build
a community in the figure hey guess what
that is kryptonite to me I'm at the
opposite extreme I'm here on YouTube
only to meet people and collaborate with
people in order to create a real
community in the real world not a
Facebook group not a youtube following I
want a real community I want to really
lobby Parliament Lobby the Senate I want
to actually have political constituency
and organization making a difference in
the real world in real legislation
that's been my position from day one and
people like Michelle manage gets so
wrapped up in their fallacious reasoning
that they end up attacking me as if I
were the guy advocating for YouTube
being just as good as or more important
than real world look like isms there's a
massive distinction between the movement
the vegan movement and vegan YouTube
right Michelle I'm bedridden ill but I'm
making the effort to come on
camera and filmed us face to face so
that you don't feel I'm insulting you
because I'm not I'd invite you your
person of the same generation as myself
to reflect back on your youth and think
about the risk someone was taking when
they were handed a pamphlet on paper
that invited them to join an
organization for black rights let's just
say it's for the upliftment of African
Americans or we could say it's for the
improvement of the conditions of
Caribbeans within the United Kingdom I
know
England has its own black rights
struggle when you're handed that
pamphlet decades ago before social media
before the internet who are you gonna
trust how do you know what you're
signing up for the leaders of that
organization they say they represent
black rights they say they represent
human equality are they actually
connected to communism are they actually
connected to Islamic fundamentalism you
don't know that was the way political
organization went on for decades and
people like my own father thrived on it
my father was basically a communist
extremist maniac and he loved the way
politics went in the 1960s he could get
money he could get laid he could get
famous he could publish books he could
leave charismatic lectures he could
become a union organizer with absolutely
no education expertise in that area he
had a great time and done a lot of women
pregnant as a political leader in that
era what YouTube lets us do that's so
fundamental to political organization
and I think you don't feel this because
you don't have a personal emotional
engagement with the reality of with that
importance of trust is just that you can
get to know someone in this way
face-to-face you can get to know all of
their political views you can get a
sense of how reasonable or unreasonable
they are you get a sense for how much
common ground you may or may not have a
lot of people supported Cory McCarthy
until the moment they saw criticism of
Cory McCarthy on my YouTube channel
where I pointed out just how racist he
was and I know this because they send me
email that communicated moved in various
media telling me wow I had no idea that
was who this guy really is politically
now I'm not gonna support him he's not
gonna be a leader for me in the beacon
movement they changed their minds about
that a lot of people supported Gary
Yourofsky until the moment they saw a
critique of Gary Yourofsky on my channel
and that changed their minds they said
wow I didn't realize that's what this
guy represents politically strategically
ethically etc my video in effect opened
their eyes and they changed their
position they looked for new leaders
they moved in a different direction with
veganism on and on this goes what we
have here on YouTube for that stage that
first preliminary stage of political
organization is crucial and that's
establishing just enough trust for
cooperation even if it's with the first
five people who start an organization
politics is an art form
but unlike painting you cannot do it
alone you need to be just one player in
an orchestra pet of your contemporaries
and coming here on YouTube lets you find
other people and ask and answer the
question hey you and me can we play in
harmony can we play the same tune
[Music]